# verilog

In electronics, a Hardware Description Language or HDL is any language from a class of computer languages for formal description of electronic circuits. It can describe the circuit's operation, its design & organization, & tests to verify its operation by means of simulation. 
HDLs are standard text-based expressions of the spatial & temporal structure & behavior of electronic systems. In contrast to a software programming language, HDL syntax & semantics include explicit notations for expressing time & concurrency, which are the primary attributes of hardware.
Languages whose only characteristic  is to express circuit connectivity between a hierarchy of blocks are properly classified as netlist languages.
HDLs are used to write executable specifications of some piece of hardware. A simulation program, designed to implement the underlying semantics of the language statements, coupled with simulating the progress of time, provides the hardware designer with the ability to model a piece of hardware before it is created physically. It is this executability that gives HDLs the illusion of being programming languages. Simulators capable of supporting discrete-event & continuous-time (analog) modeling exist, & HDLs targeted for each are available.
It is certainly possible to represent hardware semantics using traditional programming languages such as C++, although to function such programs must be augmented with extensive & unwieldy class libraries. Primarily, however,software programming languages do not include any capability for explicitly expressing time & this is why they do not function as a hardware description language.
Using the proper subset of virtually any language, a software program called a synthesizer can infer hardware logic operations from the language statements & produce an equivalent netlist of generic hardware primitives to implement the specified behavior. This typically requires the synthesizer to ignore the expression of any timing constructs in the text.
The two most widely-used & well-supported HDL varieties used in industry are:
   VHDL (Very High Speed Integrated Circuit HDL)
   Verilog HDL
   
The latter being much popular lately among many design engineers.

# VERILOG HDL
Verilog is a hardware description language (HDL) used to model electronic systems. The language supports the design, verification, & implementation of analog, digital, & mixed-signal circuits at various levels of abstraction.
The language differs in some fundamental ways. Verilog uses Begin/End instead of curly braces to define a block of code. The concept of time, so important to a HDL won't be found in C.
The language differs from a conventional programming language in that the execution of statements is not strictly sequential. A Verilog design consists of a hierarchy of modules. Modules are defined with a set of input, output, & bidirectional ports. Internally, a module contains a list of wires & registers. Concurrent & sequential statements define the behavior of the module by defining the relationships between the ports, wires, & registers. Sequential statements are placed inside a begin/end block & executed in sequential order within the block. But all concurrent statements & all begin/end blocks in the design are executed in parallel, qualifying Verilog as a Dataflow language. A module can also contain one or more instances of another module to define subbehavior.
A subset of statements in the language is synthesizable. If the modules in a design contain only synthesizable statements, software can be used to transform or synthesize the design into a netlist that describes the basic components & connections to be implemented in hardware. The netlist may then be transformed into, for example, a form describing the standard cells of an integrated circuit (e.g. an ASIC) or a bitstream for a programmable logic device (e.g. a FPGA).
